Docs CI CD (#1785)
digitalfabrik/entitlementcard: docs/cicd.md

# Continuous Integration and Delivery

## Content

- [Workflows](#workflows)
- [Failed Delivery](#failed-delivery)
- [Deliver a new release by triggering the CI](#triggering-a-delivery)
- [Services](#services)
- [Fastlane](#fastlane)
- [Determining the next version](#determining-the-next-version)
- [Environment variables](#environment-variables-and-dependencies)
## Workflows

Several workflows exist for different purposes:

| Workflow                                   | Schedule/Trigger | Checks              | native delivery | backend_administration delivery | Version bump       |
|--------------------------------------------|------------------|---------------------|-----------------|---------------------------------|--------------------|
| commit                                     | commits of PRs   | :heavy_check_mark:  | :x:             | :x:                             | :x:                |

> | commit_main                                | commits on main  | :heavy_check_mark:  | :x:             | :x:                             | :x:                |

Reviewer: :thought_balloon: unrelated to this PR, but any reason why we run checks on main as well? should never happen that we merge anything were checks do not succeed

Author: yes i think its not really needed. feel free to create an issue and remove it!

| delivery_beta_all                          | manual           | :heavy_check_mark:  | beta            | beta                            | :heavy_check_mark: |
| promote_all                                | manual           | :x:                 | promotion       | promotion                       | :x:                |
| delivery_beta_backend_administration       | manual           | :heavy_check_mark:  | :x:             | beta                            | :heavy_check_mark: |
| promote_backend_administration             | manual           | :x:                 | :x:             | promotion                       | :x:                |
| delivery_beta_native                       | manual           | :heavy_check_mark:  | beta            | :x:                             | :heavy_check_mark: |

> | promote_native                             | manual           | :x:                 | production      | :x:                             | :x:                |

Author: why i should use promote twice?

| delivery_native_production                 | manual           | :heavy_check_mark:  | production      | :x:                             | :heavy_check_mark: |
| delivery_production_backend_administration | manual           | :heavy_check_mark:  | :x:             | production                      | :heavy_check_mark: |
| frontend                                   | manual (testing) | :x:                 | :x:             | :x:                             | :x:                |

Steps executed if _Checks_ is checked :heavy_check_mark::

### General
- Check CircleCi config

### Administration
- Lint Administration
- GraphQL scheme
- Prettier formatting
- TypeScript checks
- Unit testing with jest

### Backend
- KLint
- Integration & Unit tests
- GraphQL scheme
- Backend health

### Frontend
- Dart formatting
- Build runner
- Check Analyzer and linting
- Unit tests

For `commit_main` additionally all packages will be build and and backend health check will be done

> Steps executed if _Version bump_ is checked :heavy_check_mark::

Reviewer: Please remove or add info

## Failed Delivery

> In case a delivery fails, please do not restart the workflow, but trigger a fresh release, to avoid another failure and version inconsistencies.

Reviewer: Hmm.... I think this depends on the case of the failure. If there was only a network outage or it was rejected by apple bc an agreement was missing, I think it is better to restart from failed.

Author: added some additional text

### Android Variables

| Variable                       | Description                                                                                                | Where do I get it from?                                                  | Example                                 | Reference                                                                                              |
| ------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| GOOGLE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_JSON    | JSON for authentication in the Google Play Console as Release Manager. This should expire after two years. | Password Manager                                                         | {...}                                   | [Service Account Docu](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-managing-service-account-keys?hl=de) |

> | CREDENTIALS_GIT_REPOSITORY_URL | Git remote URL to the credentials repository which contains the Java Keystore                              | Ask the team about this secret repository                                | git@github.com:User/credentials.git     | -                                                                                                      |

Reviewer 2: CREDENTIALS_GIT_REPOSITORY_URL does not only contain the android keystore, but also the ios certificates, so this should be moved to the first table with the shared constants.

> | CREDENTIALS_GIT_REPOSITORY_URL | Git remote URL to the credentials repository which contains the Java Keystore                              | Ask the team about this secret repository                                | git@github.com:User/credentials.git     | -                                                                                                      |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| CREDENTIALS_GIT_REPOSITORY_URL | Git remote URL to the credentials repository which contains the Java Keystore                              | Ask the team about this secret repository                                | git@github.com:digitalfabrik/app-credentials.git     | -                                                                                                      |
```

| CREDENTIALS_KEYSTORE_PATH      | Path to the OpenSSL AES256-CBC encrypted Java Keystore file                                                | -                                                                        | /home/circleci/credentials/<secret>.enc | Look for the `openssl enc` command in the Android Fastlane file for more information                   |
| KEYSTORE_PATH                  | Path to the decrypted Java Keystore file                                                                   | -                                                                        | /home/circleci/keystore.jks             | -                                                                                                      |
| CREDENTIALS_KEYSTORE_PASSWORD  | Password for decrypting the keystore using OpenSSL                                                         |                                                                          | password                                | -                                                                                                      |

> | KEYSTORE_KEY_ALIAS             | Alias of the key within the Java Keystore                                                                  | You should look in the JKS file using `keytool -list -v -keystore <jks>` | my-key                                  | -                                                                                                      |

Reviewer 2: this is specific per project and the env variables are called this:
KEYSTORE_KEY_ALIAS_BAYERN
KEYSTORE_KEY_ALIAS_NUERNBERG
KEYSTORE_KEY_ALIAS_KOBLENZ
KEYSTORE_KEY_PASSWORD_BAYERN
KEYSTORE_KEY_PASSWORD_NUERNBERG
'KEYSTORE_KEY_PASSWORD_KOBLENZ

Author: thx for the hint @ztefanie 
Is there any documentation about the gpg encryption. I think i didn't do a manual release after you created a general jks file and encrypted it. Maybe you can add sth to the app-credentials repo or give me some input :)

Reviewer 3: I think this information should be added to the docs.

Author: @connium yes but i think it should be in the app-credentials repo. i will update the readme there

Author: https://github.com/digitalfabrik/app-credentials/pull/2

| APP_STORE_CONNECT_API_ISSUER_ID   | Issuer ID for App Store Connect API                                                                                        | Password Manager        | 227b0bbf-ada8-458c-9d62-3d8022b7d07f                                       | [app_store_connect_api_key](https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/app_store_connect_api_key/) |
| APP_STORE_CONNECT_API_KEY_CONTENT | Key content for App Store Connect API                                                                                      | Password Manager        | -----BEGIN EC PRIVATE KEY-----\nfewfawefawfe\n-----END EC PRIVATE KEY----- | [app_store_connect_api_key](https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/app_store_connect_api_key/) |
| MATCH_PASSWORD                    | Password for accessing the certificates for the iOS app using [Fastlane Match](https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/match/) | Password Manager        | 123456                                                                     | [Using a Git Repo](https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/match/#git-repo-encryption-password) |

## Hints and Quirks

> ### CPU count aka. \$TOTAL_CPUS

Reviewer 2: We do not do this in entitlementcard, it is Integreat specific

There is no obvious way for an application to know how many cores it has available in a CircleCI docker container. The usual ways of getting the CPU count reports the CPU count of the host. This causes out-of-memory issues as the host has a lot of cores.
Therefore, all tools must set the worker limit to `$TOTAL_CPUS`. Set this variable in the `.circleci/config.yml`.

## Troubleshooting

> This section lists some commands that may help you to find and solve issues in a new deployment on staging or production server.

Reviewer 2: Nice thanks for adding these instructions. Please move them to a separate file as this is not CICD releated.
